# Table of contents
- [Populating translation opportunities](#populating-translation-opportunities)
- [Populating question opportunities](#populating-question-opportunities)
- [Generating explorations](#generating-explorations)
- [Creating a Classroom](#creating-a-classroom)

### Populating translation opportunities
1. Start a local server and sign in as an administrator (testadmin@example.com, assume username “a”).
2. Navigate to the Admin page.
3. Click the Roles tab.
4. In the Role editor, enter the admin username (“a”). Click Add Role, and add the “Curriculum Admin” role.
5. Navigate to the Activities tab. Click Load Data under Load dummy new structures data.
6. You should now see translation opportunities in the Translate Text tab at /contributor-dashboard.


### Populating question opportunities
1. Start server and sign in as administrator (assume username “a”).
2. Navigate to the Admin page.
3. Click the Roles tab.
4. In the Role editor, enter the admin username (“a”). Click Add Role, and add both the “Curriculum Admin” role and “Question Admin” role.
5. Go to http://localhost:8181/contributor-dashboard-admin and give submit question rights and review questions rights to your current username
6. Navigate back to the Admin page and navigate to the Activities tab. Click Load Data under Load dummy new structures data.
7. For the question opportunities to be valid, their corresponding topics must be part of a classroom topic. Navigate to the Config tab. Click Add element under [topic_id] (in the “The details for each classroom page.” section) and enter the topic id for the new topics that were created. (You can find a topic’s ID in its page URL from the Topic and Skills Dashboard). Make sure to click save at the bottom of the config page.
8. To enable the “Submit Question” tab for your user, make sure your signed in user is allowlisted for submitting question suggestions.

### Generating explorations
1. To generate data, we must first navigate to the admin page. We will automatically be redirected to the `ACTIVITIES` tab.
2. This tab will have several sections:
  - Reload a single exploration: This section has preloaded explorations. These can be loaded onto your local server by clicking the `Reload` button for each of them.
  - Generate dummy explorations: Along with the option to generate dummy explorations (with no content), we can also publish a certain number of them.
  - Reload a single collection: This section has preloaded collections.
  - Load dummy new structures data: This section provides a combination of topics, skills, stories and exploration.
  - Generate dummy skill with questions
  - Generate a dummy math classroom

### Creating a Classroom

1. We must first navigate to the `CONFIG` tab in the admin page. 
2. In this tab, there is a section `The details for each classroom page.` in which you will find a defult math classroom that is filled out. 
3. It has details about the classroom:
  - Name
  - URL Fragment
  - topic list intro
  - topci ids: The topic ids that should included in the classroom are listed here. We can add to this by clicking on the `Add element` option.
4. More classrooms can be generated by clicking on the `Add element` option beneath this section.
5. Once the classroom details have been filled, to complete the process we mmust save changes by clciking the `Save` button at the buttom left corner of the `CONFIG` tab.
6. If the classroom has been created successfully you will be able to see a message `Data successfully saved` at the bottom right corner of the screen.
7. The newly created classroom will be visible in the `Home` tab of the learner dashboard page or we can directly access the classroom from the link `localhost:8181/learn/<classroom-url-fragment>`.
