This page will help you solve common queries that you may face while working on LaCE issues. If you do not get a satisfactory explanation from this page, feel free to mention your query in the issue thread that you are working on or else make a discussion regarding this in [Dicussions](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/discussions). if you feel that your query can be a valid addition to this page, then make sure to create a new issue in [here](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-web-developer-docs/issues) addressing your question.

# How to perform common operations on your local server

| Index | Common Queries   |
| :---: |     :---:        |
| 1.    | [Creating a Topic](#1-creating-a-topic) |
| 2.    | [Creating a Skill](#2-creating-a-skill)|
| 3.    | [Generating data on localhost](#3-generating-data-on-localhost)|
| 4.    | [Creating a classroom](#4-creating-a-classroom)|

## 1. Creating a Topic 
- To create a new topic, we first navigate to the `Topics and Skill Dashboard` and select the `CREATE TOPIC` option. To do so, you can take a look at this [guide](Editor-pages.md#steps-to-create-a-topicskill)
- A modal will open up with necessary details of the topic that are to be filled such as topic name, topic thumbnail, etc.
- Once this is done, the topic is created and you will be redirected to the topic editor page.
- In the main editor tab, we will be able to see the errors that are preventing the topic from being published.
- This tab has 4 main sections:
  - Details: Information related to the topic
  - Subtopics section: Subtopics and skills associated with the topic are listed.
  - Diagnostic Tests: Add skills that will be used to generate the diagnostic test that determines whether to recommend this topic to new learners. For a skill to qualify for this, it must have at least 3 questions and be assigned to that topic.
  - Canonical stories: In this section, the stories belonging to the topic are listed.

## 2. Creating a Skill
  > **_NOTE:_** For a skill to be visible on the practice tab of a topic, it must have at least 10 questions associated with it.
- A skill can be directly created from the topic editor by clicking the `ADD SKILL` button under `Subtopics` section of the topic editor. But in this case, the skill will be automatically assigned to that topic.
- A skill can also be created from the Topic and Skill Dashboard as well but it will not be assigned to any topic.
- On clicking the `ADD SKILL` option a modal will pop up with necessary details of the skill.
- Once this is done, the skill is created and you will be redirected to the skill editor page
- The main skill editor section has the following part:
  - Details
  - Worked example
  - Misconceptions: Common errors that users may have and their explanations.
  - Pre-requisite Skills: Skills that are to be completed before attempting the current skill.
- The questions section lists the questions in the skill:
  - To add a new question, select the `ADD QUESTION` option
  - In the question editor, there are 5 sections:
    - Difficulty
    - Problem
    - Interaction
    - Answers ans Responses
    - Hints
  - Once all these sections are filled, the question can be saved.

## 3. Generating data on localhost
- To generate data, we must first navigate to the admin page. We will automatically be redirected to the `ACTIVITIES` tab.
- This tab will have several sections:
  - Reload a single exploration: This section has preloaded explorations. These can be loaded onto your local server by clicking the `Reload` button for each of them.
  - Generate dummy explorations: Along with the option to generate dummy explorations (with no content), we can also publish a certain number of them.
  - Reload a single collection: This section has preloaded collections.
  - Load dummy new structures data: This section provides a combination of topics, skills, stories and exploration.
  - Generate dummy skill with questions
  - Generate a dummy math classroom

## 4. Creating a Classroom

- We must first navigate to the `CONFIG` tab in the admin page. 
- In this tab, there is a section `The details for each classroom page.` in which will find a defult math classroom that is filled out. 
- It has details about the classroom:
  - Name
  - URL Fragment
  - topic list intro
  - topci ids: The topic ids that should included in the classroom are listed here. We can add to this by clicking on the `Add element` option.
- More classrooms can be generated by clicking on the `Add element` option beneath this section.
- Once the classroom details have been filled, to complete the process we mmust save changes by clciking the `Save` button at the buttom left corner of the `CONFIG` tab.
- If the classroom has been created successfully you will be able to see a message `Data successfully saved` at the bottom right corner of the screen.
- The newly created classroom will be visible in the `Home` tab of the learner dashboard page or we can directly access the classroom from the link `https://www.oppia.org/learn/<classroom-url-fragment>`.

