One of the aims of Oppia is to make it easy for people to create and share high-quality learning material online, so that others can learn anything they want to in an effective and enjoyable way. In order for this to happen, we need to learn what "high-quality" means, and would like to facilitate research that aims to answer this question.

If you'd like to help others learn a topic, and you have a hypothesis about the effectiveness of different ways of conveying it, you can test this hypothesis by going to [Oppia.org](https://www.oppia.org) and creating one exploration that exhibits it and another exploration that does not. In order to control the results, you could also incorporate the same "pre" and "post" questions in both explorations. The exploration editor will then allow you to see where learners get stuck, what they reply (in aggregate), and how of them complete your exploration, which could help you improve rough spots and get deeper insights into how learning works.

We'd like to make these insights available to everyone, so that the quality of learning material on the Web improves. Here's how you can help (note that being a professional researcher is not a prerequisite for any of these):

  * **Conduct experiments and tell the Oppia team about your work.** If you have an idea for a research project, you can email the [dev team](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/oppia-dev) or admin@oppia.org with a research plan. If there is additional functionality you need in order to conduct such experiments, we may be able to add it, especially if the results have educational value and are likely to be useful for other creators. Over time, as we develop our understanding of what methods of creating an exploration work better than others, we hope to incorporate these metaphors within the Oppia editor, so that it's easy to create good explorations from the get-go. Also, let us know if you have a written record of your research, since we may be able to feature it, especially if it's useful for other exploration creators.

  * **Usability studies.** Oppia relies heavily on usability research, testing and feedback in order to validate our design ideas. This often involves taking a design prototype, sitting down with new or existing users, and making notes on stumbling blocks and confusion points. Such feedback is very useful to the designers and developers, and helps ensure that Oppia continues to be easy to use as its functionality increases. If you'd like to help, please contact the [Oppia dev team](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/oppia-dev), and we'd be happy to help you get started.

  * **UX/interaction design.** User experience research involves conducting research into understanding a design problem, figuring out user needs and critical user journeys, and designing the overall flow of an experience. Much of this requires fairly open-ended research, since the space of possible designs tends to be quite large. We maintain a list of [open issues](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22TODO%3A+UX%2Finteraction+design%22). If you're interested in any of these, please sign into GitHub and add a comment saying that you'd like to work on the issue, so that others don't duplicate your work!